# manuscript-tcell-fallet #
Scripts to process 10X and BD Rhapsody scRNA and TCR data from three healthy donors.

Copyright (C) 2022  Mathilde Foglierini Perez

email: mathilde.foglierini-perez@chuv.ch

### SUMMARY ###

We have made available here a series of scripts to process scRNA and TCR sequencing data coming from three different healthy donors vaccinated with SARS-Cov-2 mRNA vaccine. Each 10X sample represents a donor (immune CD45+ cells isolated after dropping SARS-Cov-2 mRNA vaccine on the skin followed by a skin biopsy). The BD Rhaspody data represent multiplexed immune CD45+ cells isolated from PBMC of the same three donors.
The scripts are primarily intended as reference for manuscript "ADD THE PAPER TITLE HERE!" rather than a stand-alone application.


These scripts were run on a Linux machine.


### LICENSE ###

This code is distributed open source under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.


### INSTALL ###


The jupyter notebook can be run after installing the following Python libraries (using Python 3.9.12):
- scanpy 1.9.1
- scirpy 0.9.0 
- pandas 1.3.2
- bbknn 1.5.1 
- numpy 1.21.2 
- matplotlib 3.4.3
- seaborn 0.11.2  
- anndata 0.8.0
- scipy 1.8.1
- celltypist 0.1.9 


The Java scripts were run using Java JDK 15 https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk15-archive-downloads.html



### PIPELINE ###

The execution of the jupyter notebooks generate the different figures and files used for the publication (creation of 'analysis_out_10X' and 'analysis_out_BD' folders with related files). 

The java scripts were used to convert the data from BD Rhapsody to a cellranger-like output format, to convert scirpy AIRR file to a more complete AIRR file format (with full VDJ nucleotidic and protein sequences), to find SARS-Cov-2 specific clonotypes using MIRA and vdjdb databases and finally to find common TCR clonotypes between the two datasets (10X and BD).

All the files generated by the Java scripts can be found in the 'processed_files' folder.

The output files produced by cellranger and DB Rhapsody WTA pipelines can be found into 'cellranger_out' and 'BD_WTA_pipeline_out' folders. Raw data are available at ADD THE GEO ACCESSION NUMBER HERE!


 


